Add a blog post about why retargeting is bad (#109)
readthedocs/ethicalads.io: content/posts/ad-tracking-is-reputation-arbitrage.md

> Title: Ad Retargeting is Hurting Open Source Publisher & Helping Bad Recipe Sites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: Ad Retargeting is Hurting Open Source Publishers & Helping Bad Recipe Sites
```

I don't like the messaging here much. It seems to say Python is higher value than Recipes which while it might be true probably isn't the message we want to send. I know we talk about recipe sites in the post but I'd like to change it to just a "low value publisher" or something like that.

Date: Mar 9, 2021
description: We explain why ad retargeting hurts high-quality publishers
tags: tracking, advertising
authors: Eric Holscher
image: /images/posts/ad-retargeting.jpg
image_credit: <span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@jeswinthomas?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Jeswin Thomas</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/watching?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span>

The advertising industry wants you to believe that ad tracking makes your advertising space more valuable.
This is only true for publishers who don't have a valuable audience already on their site.
We'll talk briefly about how this works,
and point you to some additional resources to learn more.

This post focused on the advertising practice of [retargeting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavioral_retargeting):

> > **Ad retargeting** is a technology that uses cookies and other invasive targeting methods to follow your users across multiple websites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Ad retargeting** is a technology that uses cookies and other invasive targeting methods to target users with ads who have taken specific actions in the past like visit certain websites, browsed certain products, or watched specific videos.
```

I think being really precise here helps our credibility.

### How it works

The way retargeting works is:

* The ad network knows the audience of valuable publisher (eg. Python web developers)
* The valuable publisher has ad network javascript on their site, showing them an ad for **$1 CPM**
* the ad network tags a user via cookies or [other intrusive methods](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/02/under-senate-pressure-verizon-improves-its-supercookie-opt-out) to follow them across the web
* This user goes to a lower quality site (eg. a recipe website)
* The ad network shows a Python ad to the user on the recipe site, paying **$.25 CPM**

> **Retargeting is valuable because it allows advertisers to show ads to your audience on cheaper sites.**

Reviewer: This example above is more a critique of behavioral targeting -- learning about the user and showing ads based on their features -- than retargeting specifically. Retargeting is usually used by sellers on websites in combination with ad networks. The most common way it's used is like this:

- I'm a company and I sell product X
- I put a pixel on my website for ad networks A, B, and C
- I can now target product X ads on networks A, B, and C to folks who have visited my website in the past.

Reviewer: Now tracking users does hurt high quality publishers and does help low quality publishers so that is correct. However, the way that works is only sort of related to retargeting and not in the traditional sense.

### Why it's bad

Retargeting is also why there are so many terrible recipe websites on the internet.
This is due to market mechanisms that balance the pricing of advertising:

> * Advertisers want to pay more to reach "Python developers" than "people who cook"

Reviewer: Is this the story we want to tell? It feels almost classist.

* If those developers can be retargeted on recipe sites, recipe sites can show Python ads instead of Cooking ads
* This means there are more possible sites for Python ads, lowing the price of each Python ad sold
* This means recipe sites make more money, and Python docs make less money
* This leads to more recipe sites, and less Python documentation

We only work with valuable publishers,
so everyone in the EthicalAds network has very little to gain from working with tracking ad networks.
As we grow our market across the developer community,
we hope to be able to increase revenue for our publishers because their users won't be as easy to retarget.

### What you can do

By user [privacy-preserving ad network](/publishers/) like EthicalAds,
publishers will be able to continue creating value for open source.
You can also use browser extensions like [Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/) that protect against the basic forms of this tracking.

If we are able to change how the industry works,
the internet will become a better place.
On a long enough time scale, we'll also get better recipe websites :)

*Note: We only linked to sites in this post that don't retarget you.

> If you want to learn more, we highly recommend reading the [EFF blog](https://www.eff.org/).*

Reviewer: This feels like a throwaway.
